# simulator-core  code review

TODO
- Tools
  - Linting
  - Type hinting
  - Unit tests
  - Documentation
- dev process (pull requests / reviews), commits to master
	- code reviews in dev process? quality? 
  
- overall architecture
- code style
	- variable naming
- documentation quality? 


# General

## Accessibility
Setting up the dev environment is not fully automatic and requires some manual steps
I got an install issue with ~ip-tools (?),  pytest-cov was not installed (missing dev-depencency).  
Are the requirements.txt filesup to date?   (Note: I probably didn't install the dev-depencencies, 
this seems to be a manual step. 

after fixing the environment, i could run pytest.  all tests pass, 92% code coverage (!)

## Develoment process
Main development is done by Sam & Mike.  Ryvo has contributed on parts of the assets and with internal discussions (and review?),  I was involved only in the start of development

development is done in branches which are merged via PRs. Code review is done for (almost) every PR,  the comments seem reasonable. Most comments seem very compact/short, I assume offline discussion takes place? 

Github Issues are used (currently 39 open, 26 closed).  Issues seem relevant and descriptive titles are used. However,  most issues contain no description or content,  no criteria for succes, documentation, etc. No (online) discussion takes place on the issues,  so documentation of the issue-solving process is missing.  discussion via issues may also be an opportunity to involve Ryvo more?

# Documentation

## readme's 
The README.MD is basically empty, doesn't provide any info
The CONTROBUTING.md lists general code quality requirements,  but is missing details.  For example: 
- "Linting"  and "Type checking" paragraphs don't specify the tools used (flake8 / mypy) 
- Rules can be ignored when approved by the software leads,  who are they? 

These files are the versions generated by the python-template, and should be improved going forward. 

## Developer documentation
The readme's are not helping and there is no general developer documentation. 
Each/most functions have docstrings explaining their purpose and arguments/return type

## docstrings
Every class/method/function contains a docstring. However, not all docstrings are useful. Some docstrings provide incomplete or incorrect information. Example:  NetworkSimulation.

The docstring says "NetworkSimulation connects the controller and HeatNetwork (incl. assets)."  However,  it doesn't "connect" anything. This class runs a simulation of a connected HeatNetwork and NetworkController for a certain amount of timesteps (provided as an argument via SimulationConfiguration) and collects output timeseries from all objects in the HeatNetwork.  

NetworkSimulation.gather_output docstring says " ... return a dict with output". However, it returns a dataframe!

# Tooling checks

## unit tests
All tests run & pass. 92% coverage! 
Test quality looks good.  some tests seem pointless but it's an artifact of keeping tests small/single-purpose.  No overly long / complicated tests found.
Error handling / data validation is being tested (Tests check if exception is raised)
Complicated dependencies are mocked in some tests. Is this the case everywhere?


## Linting & type hints
Running mypy reports 0 errors, indicating that typehinting is implemented correctly.  
I couldn't find any significant usage of Typing.Any (only for abstract classes/lists) 
Flake8 finds a load of errors,  but I think this is an environment error on my side? 

# Code Architecture
Basic architecture follows a layered model (Infrastructure -> Adapter -> logic -> Entities/assets),  which
is a logical choice for an application like this (converting ESDL to an object-model, run simulation, 
gather results from object model and return output in a certain format (which may differ from the internal format). 
  
However, at some point the development overtook the architecture? E.g. I see two "Asset"  folders. 

The "late" switch from pandapipes to an internal solver is very visible in the code. The "pandapipes" 
objects such as ProductionCluster, DemandCluster are now wrappers around the internal solver. This made sense as an abstraction layer around PandaPipes, but it is not logical when the solver is integrated in the same repository (we have full control over the code)
Why not integrate the Production_asset functionality in the ProductionCluster class (for example)???

InfluxDb communication is done through a utils module in Entities/assets. The layered architecture would suggest to have this code in the infrastructure layer and pass some abstract repository-type to the assets. 

Some object interactions seem out of place / inconsistent,  but then these functions are currently unused in the code.  This may just be a result of the code-base being in ongoing development. 

Suggestion:  clarify / document the desired code architecture,  then implement (and refractor!) accoordingly

## run stack trace
Infrastructure.app.run()
	Infrastructure.SimulationManager()
		HeatNetwork.__init__()
			EsdlEnergySystemMapper
				EsdlAssetMapper -> (list of Asset Objects)
				(create list of Junction Objects)
		NetworkController (returned from EsdlControllerMapper().to_entity(self.esdl) )
	SimulationManager.execute()
		NetworkSimulation.run()
			Loop over all timesteps:
				NetworkController.run_time_step()
				HeatNetwork.run_time_step()
					solver??
				HeatNetwork.store_output()
		NetworkSimulation.gather_output()
return pd.Dataframe
				 
## Inconsistencies
SimulationManager, line 47-48:  HeatNetworkconstructor takes a mapper as an argument and does the mapping itself NetworkController needs two lists of internal asset objects,  so the simulation manager calls the EsdlControllerMapper to do the conversion, which resutls in a constructed NetworkController object.   Both approaches are fine,  but choose one and follow that!

BaseAsset vs asset-implementations:   waarom Heat/temperature equations in Base Asset,  maar dan Pressure equation in de Boundary implementatie (heet BaseBoundary, maar er zijn geen implementaties? 

Waarom geen implementatie van BaseBoundary? 

In solver_pipe,  some internal functions are not marked as such (calculate_reynolds_number())



