Writing Documentation with AI Agents
=====================================

Purpose
-------

This guide explains how contributors use the SIMULATOR-CORE AI agent workflow to write,
review, and validate documentation. It is written for anyone who needs to add or modify
documentation in this project and wants to understand which agents exist, what each one
does, how to invoke them, and how to validate the result.

Use this guide instead of the conceptual documentation or the API reference when your goal
is to write documentation itself — new pages, corrections to existing pages, or navigation
updates.

Relevant Agent Files
--------------------

All agent definitions live under ``.github/agents/`` in the repository root. The shared
cross-cutting rules used by all agents are in
``.github/instructions/documentation-architecture.instructions.md``.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 30 35 35

   * - Agent file
     - Role
     - When to use
   * - ``DocumentationCoordinator.agent.md``
     - Entry point for all documentation tasks. Classifies requests, delegates to specialist
       agents, enforces the fixed top-level section order, and ensures navigation consistency.
     - Start here for any documentation task that spans multiple pages, sections, or agent
       types, or when you are unsure which specialist agent to use.
   * - ``PhysicsAssetDocAgent.agent.md``
     - Writes end-user physics asset pages under ``doc/physics``. Documents what an asset
       represents, its inputs, control signals, outputs, and governing physical relations.
     - Adding or updating a page under ``doc/physics`` for a thermal asset such as a heat
       pump, consumer, producer, ATES cluster, or heat exchanger.
   * - ``SystemConceptDocAgent.agent.md``
     - Writes conceptual narrative pages for the Intro, Solver, Network, and user-facing
       Control sections.
     - Adding or updating a conceptual page in ``doc/intro``, ``doc/solver``,
       ``doc/network``, or ``doc/controller`` that explains system behavior rather than
       implementation details.
   * - ``SolverBehaviorDocAgent.agent.md``
     - Writes detailed solver-behavior documentation in ``doc/solver``, explaining what the
       solver assembles and solves each timestep and the physical impact of that solve.
     - Adding or updating ``doc/solver/solver_behavior.rst`` or similar solver-depth pages.
   * - ``ControllerBehaviorDocAgent.agent.md``
     - Writes detailed controller-behavior documentation in ``doc/controller``, explaining
       what the network controller decides each timestep and how those decisions affect the
       solved physical model.
     - Adding or updating controller dispatch or per-component behavior pages under
       ``doc/controller``.
   * - ``DeveloperGuideAgent.agent.md``
     - Writes contributor-facing developer guide pages under ``doc/developer``. Documents
       code layout, execution flow, extension workflows, and testing guidance for
       contributors.
     - Adding or updating pages in ``doc/developer`` that explain how to extend, test, or
       navigate the codebase.
   * - ``APIReferenceAgent.agent.md``
     - Maintains the autogenerated API reference under ``doc/developer/api``. Manages
       autodoc and apidoc integration. Does not write narrative documentation.
     - Adjusting API reference page structure, toctrees, or the apidoc integration. Do not
       use for narrative or conceptual content.
   * - ``NavigationAgent.agent.md``
     - Creates and maintains toctrees, section landing pages, and cross-links. Maintains the
       mandatory top-level section order.
     - Adding a page to the toctree, updating a landing page summary, or correcting broken
       navigation structure.
   * - ``SupportDocAgent.agent.md``
     - Writes concise support pages under ``doc/support``. Documents where to get help, how
       to report issues, and what information to include.
     - Adding or updating pages in ``doc/support``.
   * - ``DocReviewAgent.agent.md``
     - Reviews documentation for audience fit, scope correctness, duplication, completeness,
       and cross-link quality. Does not rewrite pages from scratch.
     - After authoring a page, use this agent to check audience fit, scope drift, and
       structural consistency before a build check.
   * - ``SphinxValidationAgent.agent.md``
     - Validates the documentation build: toctree integrity, autodoc resolution, and the
       absence of Sphinx warnings and errors. Delegates reStructuredText syntax checks to
       ``RstSyntaxAgent`` and routes content fixes to the correct specialist agent.
     - After any documentation change, use this agent to confirm the build is clean. Use it
       when the build produces warnings or errors you need diagnosed. RST syntax issues are
       routed to ``RstSyntaxAgent`` automatically.
   * - ``RstSyntaxAgent.agent.md``
     - Reviews and validates reStructuredText syntax and formatting: headings, lists, links,
       code blocks, directives, tables, and equations.
     - When a specific file has syntax or formatting issues that do not require a full content
       review.

Documentation Workflow
-----------------------

The following steps describe the typical workflow for adding a new documentation page using
the agent system.

1. **Identify the documentation type.** Decide which section the new page belongs to based
   on the fixed top-level section order:

   1. Introduction
   2. Solver
   3. Network
   4. Physics
   5. Control
   6. Developer Documentation
   7. Support

   Each section has a corresponding specialist agent. If you are unsure, invoke the
   ``DocumentationCoordinator`` and describe your goal.

2. **Invoke the DocumentationCoordinator** (optional but recommended for multi-page or
   cross-section tasks). Provide the documentation goal, the target section or file, and any
   scope constraints. The coordinator classifies the task, selects the correct specialist
   agent, and defines the expected output.

3. **Invoke the appropriate specialist agent.** For a single page, you may invoke the
   specialist agent directly:

   - Physics asset page: ``PhysicsAssetDocAgent``
   - Intro/Solver/Network/Control concept page: ``SystemConceptDocAgent``
   - Solver behavior detail page: ``SolverBehaviorDocAgent``
   - Controller behavior detail page: ``ControllerBehaviorDocAgent``
   - Developer guide page: ``DeveloperGuideAgent``
   - API reference: ``APIReferenceAgent``
   - Support page: ``SupportDocAgent``

   Provide the agent with: the page goal, page title, target file path, and scope constraints.

4. **Update navigation.** After the page is authored, ensure it is reachable through exactly
   one ``.. toctree::`` entry. Invoke ``NavigationAgent`` if the toctree update is
   non-trivial or spans multiple landing pages. For simple additions (such as adding a single
   page to ``developer_main.rst`` and ``developer_navigation.rst``), the edit can be made
   directly.

5. **Review the authored page.** Invoke ``DocReviewAgent`` to check audience fit, scope
   correctness, duplication, and cross-link quality. Apply any corrections the review
   identifies.

6. **Validate the build.** Invoke ``SphinxValidationAgent`` or run the build command
   directly (see `Testing and Validation`_). If the build produces warnings or errors,
   ``SphinxValidationAgent`` can diagnose them and route fixes to the correct specialist
   agent.

7. **Fix syntax issues.** ``SphinxValidationAgent`` routes reStructuredText syntax
   problems to ``RstSyntaxAgent`` automatically when it detects them during a build
   validation pass. To run a targeted syntax check on a specific file before a full
   build — for example after writing a new page — invoke ``RstSyntaxAgent`` directly
   on that file.

Implementation Notes
--------------------

**Single toctree path rule.**
Every page must be reachable through exactly one ``.. toctree::`` path. Linking the same
page from two toctrees creates duplicate navigation entries. When adding a new page, check
that it is added to at most one toctree. Use ``:doc:`` prose links to cross-reference a page
from a second location without creating a second toctree entry.

**Specialist agents do not replace each other.**
Each specialist agent is scoped to its own documentation type. The ``DeveloperGuideAgent``
writes contributor-facing implementation guides; ``SystemConceptDocAgent`` writes end-user
conceptual pages; ``PhysicsAssetDocAgent`` writes asset physics pages. Invoking the wrong
agent produces a page with the wrong audience, tone, and scope. Use the
``DocumentationCoordinator`` when the correct agent is not obvious.

**Generated API reference is not hand-edited.**
The pages under ``doc/developer/api/`` are generated by the ``run_apidoc()`` hook in
``doc/conf.py``. Do not edit these files by hand and do not add them to toctrees other than
the one already managed by ``APIReferenceAgent``. Use ``APIReferenceAgent`` only for
structural API reference changes, not for narrative developer documentation.

**Documentation architecture instructions apply to all agents.**
The file ``.github/instructions/documentation-architecture.instructions.md`` contains the
fixed top-level section order, equation notation rules, single toctree path rule, and the
build-validation command. Every agent loads these shared rules. When you see a deviation from
the expected structure, the instructions file is the canonical source.

**Coordinator handoff sequence.**
``DocumentationCoordinator`` defines two built-in handoffs that apply after any specialist
author completes a page:

- ``DocReviewAgent`` — audience/scope/duplication review,
- ``SphinxValidationAgent`` — documentation build validation.

When using the coordinator for a multi-page task, these handoffs are triggered automatically.
For single-page tasks handled directly through a specialist agent, trigger the review and
validation steps manually.

Testing and Validation
-----------------------

After authoring or editing any documentation page, validate the build from the repository
root using the following command:

.. code-block:: console

   .\.venv\Scripts\python -m sphinx -b html doc doc/_build/html

A clean build produces no warnings or errors. If the build reports warnings, read the output
carefully: most warnings identify the file and line number of the problem.

For targeted syntax checks before running the full build, invoke ``RstSyntaxAgent`` on the
specific file. ``RstSyntaxAgent`` checks heading underline consistency, list formatting,
directive indentation, table syntax, and cross-reference formatting.

For toctree and autodoc issues, invoke ``SphinxValidationAgent``. It runs the build command,
parses the output, delegates reStructuredText syntax fixes to ``RstSyntaxAgent``, and routes
other content-level fixes to the correct specialist agent.

Common documentation validation checks:

- Verify reStructuredText syntax and formatting via ``RstSyntaxAgent`` (or check headings,
  lists, code blocks, directives, and tables manually if the agent is unavailable).
- All new pages appear in exactly one ``.. toctree::``.
- All ``:doc:`` and ``:ref:`` cross-references resolve without warnings.
- All ``.. list-table::`` directives have consistent column widths and correct indentation.
- The heading hierarchy within each file is consistent (no skipped heading levels).
- No hand-edited files exist under ``doc/developer/api/``.

Common Pitfalls
---------------

- **Using the wrong specialist agent.** Physics asset pages, conceptual control pages,
  controller behavior pages, and developer guides each require a different agent. Using
  ``DeveloperGuideAgent`` for an asset physics page produces implementation-focused
  documentation where end-user-focused documentation is expected.
- **Adding a page to two toctrees.** Violates the single toctree path rule and creates
  duplicate navigation entries. Use ``:doc:`` prose links for cross-references instead of
  adding a second toctree entry.
- **Hand-editing generated API reference files.** Files under ``doc/developer/api/`` are
  regenerated on every build. Manual edits are overwritten silently.
- **Skipping the DocReviewAgent step.** New pages frequently drift in audience or scope
  without a review pass. A page written for contributors may inadvertently contain
  end-user-only material, or vice versa.
- **Not running the build before submitting.** Sphinx builds catch broken references,
  missing toctree entries, and directive errors that are not visible from the file content
  alone. Always run the build after any documentation change.
- **Omitting required sections.** Each specialist agent defines a required section order for
  its documentation type. Omitting required sections (for example, omitting ``Common
  Pitfalls`` from a developer guide or ``Assumptions`` from a physics page) reduces
  consistency with the rest of the documentation set.
- **Invoking the DocumentationCoordinator for a single simple edit.** The coordinator is
  optimized for multi-agent, multi-page tasks. For a small targeted fix to an existing page,
  invoke the owning specialist agent directly.

Related Documentation
---------------------

- :doc:`developer_navigation` — start here for a quick map of all developer guides.
- :doc:`simulation_contributor_flow` — code layout, package structure, and execution flow
  for contributors making code changes.
- :doc:`testing` — how to run the test suite and validate code changes alongside
  documentation changes.
- :doc:`../support/support` — where to ask questions and report issues.
- The ``.github/agents/`` directory and
  ``.github/instructions/documentation-architecture.instructions.md`` in the repository root
  are the canonical sources for agent definitions and shared documentation rules.
